Um, he said there was a guy like that.
Uh, the man's dead now, so I think I'm free to say, yes, he lived in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and, uh, uh, he was my first collector.
I was a fairly young author, you know, and this was all very new and of flattering attention.
He'd send me boxes of books, which I would sign, and then he ran a paper company, so he would send me paper.
So for many years, I was able to use good quality, 20-weight, you know, rag, high rag content paper, free, for just signing these books, um,
And it didn't seem burdensome.
And I imagined that he and I had a great relationship, you know, over the years.
And I was in Oshkosh because my son went to Lawrence University in Appleton, nearby Appleton.
And I ran out of money as I was driving my boy out there.
And I thought, well, I have a friend in Oshkosh, so I could find the paper company.
And I popped in on him and said, I need somebody to cash a check.
And he looked dumbfounded.
You know, to have me materialize in this way as a real person.
I didn't realize this was a real story.
A needy person.
And he didn't look entirely pleased because this wasn't how he saw me.
Anyway, we did...
He took me to his house, maybe on a later visit, and showed me my books, as in the case of Peterbush, isn't that right?
They were all in a closet, beautifully cellophane, wrapped, and totally unread-looking.
That's wonderful.
With others, with others.
That's right.
He played me false.
Well, I interviewed a guy out, and I went to visit a guy out in Springfield, Missouri, just last month.
I'd read about him on the Washington Post, and they had mentioned my story in there.
And this man, his name is you probably heard of him, Roland Comstock.
He flies all over the country.
He spends about anywhere from $50,000 to $100,000 a year just flying to meet authors and have them sign his books.
And then on top of that, he buys up the remainders of their first printings.
He had one author of 1,000 copies, I swear, on pallets in his house.
My God.
He must have a big house, because books take up space.
This is the Ozarks.
He's got a lot of room.
A lot of room in the Ozarks.
Books, huh?
Anyway, it's a... I've never met Mr. Comstock, I don't believe, although I've met a lot of book... I've met a lot of book and kooks, I will say.
Well, just anything... When they asked by, it was here in the spring...
She said, you really must see this one.
Because I also mentioned her book, Possession.
Book, Passion.
Yeah, a book I've not read, I regret to say.
I could mean to.
It's on my long list of books to read.
Anyway.
Anyway, let's find a ways past it.
I'll take care of that.
Hello.
So, this coffee's not half bad, actually.
Good.
As coffee goes.
No, collectors.
Well, you don't want to talk about collectors now.
No.
But they are strange, fanatic people who by and large are not literary people, really.
Their interest almost is never in the text itself.
So when you attempt to discuss the text with them, they really have no sense of what's in the book.
It's all they care about is the cover and the condition of the jacket and so on.
This next book is not a book about collecting so much.
I am interested in the book, however, as an artifact and also the text.
A chapter I'm really involved in right now, of course, is this raging canon debate, and I wonder if you have any opinion on...
I just, Scott Turow last week just told me in New York, I didn't interview Scott Turow in New York, and he said he was at a dinner at Amherst College when the president of the college was told that they had just graduated an English major, summa cum laude, and this, an English major who had never taken a course in Shakespeare.
And he was, he said, we did that.
Do you have any sense of this?
You know, I don't teach, and you can imagine I would take a fairly conservative view of it.
I was an English major, and we were given, at the outset of our careers there, this wonderful red book full of everything from Beowulf up to Virginia Woolf was the joke then, and between the two wolves.
I think it was...
you had to read some Shakespeare.
You know, there were these, there was some room for play in it, but the idea of skipping Chaucer or Shakespeare or Milton.
Spencer.
I loved Spencer, funnily enough, or imagine I did.
I'm not sure I'd want to read him endlessly, but I certainly did read, too, The Fairy Queen, under the guidance of Douglas Bush, who was a Renaissance man, the man who specialized in the English Renaissance.
Um,
I think they're cheating themselves, really, in trying to adjust it to today's world, the mentality of the kids.
Obviously, the canon has to alter, and certain things are going to drop out of it and welcome any new discoveries we have, especially black or female or both writers.
But by and large, I'm afraid...
I'm afraid the books in the canon are there for a reason, and they're not easily supplanted without degrading the meaning of an English major, being an English major.
I had a very long interview in New Haven last month with Harold Bloom, of course.
Yes, he's become a canonologist, a canonologist par excellence.
And he believes that
He says he's going to teach until he dies because he fears he's one of the last.
You know, it's like when he's gone and people of his generation at his disposition, they're gone, that you won't have people teaching classical literature, classical English literature, whatever.
And he foresees English departments as being two, three,
teacher staffs, like the classics are taught now, like you study Latin or Greek.
I mean, that's an unfortunate prospect.
But I guess, of course, when you talk about the canon, what's going on now is that there are canons being developed.
I mean, you have the feminist scholars.
I mean, Sarah Orange-Jewitt has been beatified, and I think she's about to become a saint, you know, because it's been decided.
And I wonder how valid these...
selection processes I don't know it's just it is an interesting debate that I've ended and I cannot I never imagined how pitched a battle it was well there's nothing more fierce than these academic academic battles and you know we have lost canons obviously the entire classics canon is something that until not too many generations ago was considered the basis of humanistic education was
to read the Greeks and the Romans, and we're pretty well dispensed with that, really.
I had to pass a Latin requirement to get into Harvard in 1950, but that seems like kind of the last gasp of that particular.
So things can get dropped that once seemed indispensable, but it is hard for me still to think of Shakespeare.
I have read that Shakespeare, in about one more generation
People just won't be able to understand him on the stage.
That is, the language will have evolved far enough away from Elizabethan or Jacobian English that it would be impossible to show him as he was spoken.
Well, I have always found that any time you plan to see a Shakespeare play in performance or even in a good film, it really does behoove you to read the play with all the notes and have a sense of the language because it's like an opera almost.
Mm-hmm.
the poetry is wonderful, and there are these wonderful arias and all that, but if you don't know the libretto, you're in tough shape.
Apparently kids now are very resistant to 19th century novels, in which the language seems to me quite accessible and beautiful, but somebody like Hawthorne, whom I think of as
a fairly lucid, clear writer, actually poses big vocabulary problems to them, and problems of diction, just the way he puts things.
So this is the way maybe the great Victorians will fade away.
They just can't be easily read without whatever notes and guidance and that other... I'm sorry.
I gave a talk Saturday at the Concord Public Library, and on the way in they have, in a case, they have Emerson's...
The presentation copy given to him by Thoreau Walden.
I mean, I must say, I get a kick.
And what made me think of that is I handled Hawthorne's own copy of Moby Dick given to him by Melville.
That's in Philadelphia at the Rosenbach Museum.
For heaven's sake.
You talk about an artifact of giving you a really exciting... I mean, you think of the hands that something like this has passed through.
I'm sorry to go off on this tangent here.
No, no, it's a good tangent.
We're both in the book business.
I'm in the book business.
I'm sorry, this will be used in my new book.
I'm not some kind of a collector in a very small way of my own.
I mean, I actually have shelled out fairly big amounts for first editions of The Wasteland.
I seem to have a lot of Eliot for some reason.
I mean, I've collected Eliot, because there's not that much of it.
So I understand the joy of the book collector.
It shouldn't take precedence over actually reading books.
But you certainly have a sense of the book as an artifact, however.
Yeah.
And do you feel something?
I mean, I just mentioned Hawthorne's copy of Moby Dick, where he is the dedicatee, by the way, which really makes it really special.
That's a wonderful book to have in your hands.
That's the one book that Rosenbach said he desperately had to have, and the one book he would never part with.
He also purchased for $1,600 at auction in 1922 the manuscript of Ulysses.
You know, John Quinn.
What a steal.
Total steal, and he knew it, too, at the time.
It was cheap even then.
It was thought to be even then.
And Joyce was furious because he thought that was, you know, he for years tried to get it back.
Yeah, he didn't think it would be properly cared for in the new world.
That's right.
Passing, but...
One wonders just how many millions of dollars that would fetch at auctions today.
Well, they better work fast, because pretty soon people won't be able to read Ulysses either, so it will become another dead book.
Well, what they call them, you see, are dead white European males.
I mean, that's dwems, is what they call them.
And one other question, and then we'll leave it, but the argument put forth today, there was a big conference
in Boston in August, the Association of Literary Critics.
You've heard of this group.
Roger Shattuck is the head of it.
And it is trying to—it's in opposition to the MLA.
I see.
It's a counter.
It's an anti-MLA.
And it's interesting.
I went there.
It was a debate.
I mean, the tenor of the—I mean, these are not meek little academics.
And it was fascinating.
But they were talking about, you know, that the argument is, put forth, a book text has to be relevant today.
Do you agree with that?
Does Shakespeare have to be relevant?
Of course, he is relevant.
It depends on how you find relevant.
Of course, all the classics are relevant enough.
They describe human nature, and that is very relevant.
So it depends on how you define relevant.
If you define it narrowly, of course.
But then you get into books that are relevant in this sense now.
They won't be relevant five years from now.
You're just condemning yourself to it.
I'll have the kids read newspapers.
That's relevant, I guess.
No, I don't believe in relevance in that way.
I mean, I read things that are very remote from my own experience with a great pleasure and profit.
Spencer, for example.
You've got to get a sense of the stretch of human possibilities, and literature exists in part to give you other
other lives, other ways of living, other contexts.
And once you start paring it down to what really speaks to you, I think you're getting much narrower.
And ultimately, you know, it tends to reinforce your own egotism, your own egoism, I should say.
Whereas, no, I think it's great to pick up exotic, to have books be somewhat exotic as
as I suppose the world of Paradise Lost is now to most people.
But, no, anyway, Shattuck and others are pro-relevance or they're anti-relevance?
No, they're pro-canon is what they are.
Pro-canon, so they're anti-MLA and all of this, they think, excessively diverse and sensitive.
Yeah, I don't know.
diversity and sensitivity are sort of flash words here.
Exactly.
I was interested to see so many women at the conference, but not a single black face, notably conspicuous by their ancestors.
One American-American in the whole hall.
With gates across the river at Harvard, you know, you would have thought there might have been a, in that department, there might have been a presence.
But anyway, I'm following it.
I'm going to interview everybody that I can.
and we'll see what develops out of it.
You know, I have to tell you, baseball, of course, and this is where you're talking today on a Monday, two nights after the Yankees won the World Series, and you have written, I believe, one of the great, great, great baseball pieces.
My only grace ball piece in a way.
Well, it's like if you only had one time at bat, you may as well hit it out of the park, you know.
Golf doesn't seem to...
I would say prior to this book doesn't seem to conjure up the kind of beauty that you would expect from a writer.
I wonder, was this a challenge for you as a writer of wonderful fiction and stories?
The world of golf, when I entered it at the age of 25, was magical to me.
As I say in there, I had read about it, I'd read the Woodhouse stories, uh,
It is mentioned in English novels, I mean, the golf course, the murder mysteries, I forget what else.
I had some reading acquaintance with golf, but none of the actual practice of it.
And the simplicity and difficulty of the swing and the variety, all that loomed to me as exciting, mystical even, mystical.
I wanted to write about it.
I mean, it became something that interested me.
It's very hard for a writer to write about what doesn't interest him, although you're often being invited to write about things that interest other people.
But you're stuck with your own psyche.
The first attempts were in fiction.
I described it.
I read a lot of books of instruction.
The book wouldn't exist probably if Golf Digest hadn't invited me to write more or less an annual little essay on golf.
And most of the really new material in there are those essays.
I find it very easy to write about, unlike team sports where so much depends upon...
lightning fast interaction you know golf is sort of out there it's very transparent in that it shares that with baseball you can sort of see what's happening right there's no hidden thing in the line no subtleties that belong only to the participants so in that way it lends itself to being written about and I did have this urgent this urgent sense of being thrilled by the experience of playing golf
You can have a dismal round, of course.
You can wonder why you're wasting your time.
You can reach, and I sort of mention this in the book, too, you can reach the point where you realize you're not going to get much better.
Despite all that, there remains a great charm for me.
It's a...
I was funny as a kid.
You have either wimps who can't do sports at all, or you have the jocks who can do them all very nicely.
And I was really somewhere between.
I wasn't very good, but I did like athletic endeavors, and I played a lot of sort of alley basketball, a lot of vacant lot touch football, a lot of vacant lot baseball.
So the sensations of all these sports were real to me, even though I
never rescinded the heights.
It wasn't what my father used to call a natural.
He was a public school teacher, and so he would—he was kind of a fatalist about performance.
It was interesting, both as students, you know, brains, you either had it or you didn't, and the same thing went for athletic ability—you either had it or you didn't.
Another Calvinist, maybe, point of view.
But I'm afraid that overall it kind of holds up.
But so that for me to have some sport I can do as an adult and, you know, not lose all the time, win some of the time, and be better than some people, if worse than others, all that is kind of meaningful to me.
It's kept me in touch with my physical self in a way.
I did play tennis also.
My first wife and I had even built a tennis court, so...
But that kind of went with my first marriage, and tennis never struck me as quite as magical, really, as golf.
Interesting.
Of course, there's that very early quote from your wife, I mean, the dreams.
That's where you actually derived your title, I think.
She dreams, she's always winning, and it's wonderful.
Well, it is true that like sex, if you go without it for a while, you begin to dream about it.
And that's been the case with me in golf.
In the winter, you get this golf hunger.
It's strange.
And it begins to enter your dreams.
And I think the major point I made in that is that...
You always accept the course in a golf dream, however outrageously difficult it is.
You know, you're hitting off of a table or trying to get the ball into a thimble or whatever the preposterous condition is, you always doggedly accept it as the way you do on a golf course, really.
It's just another kind of golf course that you're being condemned to play on.
It is interesting also that we talk about the comparison that baseball and golf...
and I think you've already suggested, you know, baseball is a game, let's face it, certainly at our age, where you enjoy it as an observer, and you watch these wonderfully gifted young men play brilliantly and perform, but we observe it from here.
Golf, on the other hand, is a participatory sport, and I guess there is a fundamental difference there, certainly from the perspective of a writer who's writing about it.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It'd be very hard for me to endlessly identify the way, say, Roger Angel does, to get endlessly excited about these athletes as they rise and fall and come and go and the waves of them.
You mentioned the Williams piece, but I had been a Williams fan.
I picked him out of the world of baseball from Pennsylvania.
I'd been struck by this star up there in Boston.
I really kind of fell in love with him in the way of a pre-adolescent does with these remote figures, and I followed his career.
So when I sat down to write about that last game, I had 15 years of Williams' adoration under my belt, and I knew basically the career.
I couldn't do that with everybody.
I mean, unlike a sports writer, I just couldn't work up that degree of passion for another...
another player.
I follow baseball somewhat, and sorry to see the Red Sox have such a mediocre season, but certainly the Williams, I was crazy.
I mean, I used to listen to the radio, car radio, until I wore out the car radio and the battery wouldn't turn over.
That's how keen I was on following Ted Williams.
Kind of madness, and like other sorts of madness, it
how it belongs to a certain season in your life, and you're not going to sustain it to the end.
Well, there is a similar kind of a madness than the golf passion, don't you think, in a way?
Yes, yes, and I thought I was over it.
As I said when I wrote the introduction, this is sort of it for me in golf.
I'm going to bind these up, and I hate the game now, and I'm lousy at it.
Well, that's why you hated it, because you weren't
And the structure of the book, I have to say, one of the critics, I really agree, and I think it's actually been the case with all of your books, apart from the novels, of course, is that there is a mindful structure here.
This isn't just a gathering of your pieces.
I think that you really exercised a considerable amount of thought here in arranging these stories.
And maybe you could talk a little bit about the
what you had in mind there as a literary structure?
Well, the idea of making it, learning the game, playing the game, loving the game, that came to me.
I did have this morass of golf pieces, some old, some new, and various textures, even a few pawns, and needing some kind of organizing principle, and those three heads occurred to me as a good way to do it, and...
first you show the difficulty of the game and all this ridiculous instruction that you must submit to, and then the fiction basically showing what it feels like to be playing, and then winding up with these little homages that one gets asked to write.
I've become known now as a golf writer.
You know, I get mail, John Updike, golf writer, and I'm kept apprised of all of the
the course statistics on every tournament that's played in the PGA circuit now, so on the strength of just that.
Do you read this stuff?
No.
No, I don't.
I can't say that I do.
I'm not going to write about it.
I do watch often the weekend tournaments when they're on.
Now they're pretty well crowded off by football.
But I follow it as a sport to a minor degree.
It's a way of loving the game, isn't it?
You can't play it all the time, but you can watch other people play it.
Of a January day, it's pretty nice to watch those desert courses and see it all start up again.
And now we have a new star.
Isn't he wonderful?
Well, he does seem to be wonderful, really.
Yeah, no, he has been amazing.
He's too good to be true, even.
I'm sorry to impose my thoughts on this, but he's wonderful.
He really is.
He's such a gentleman, such a nice young man.
He's a very poised young man with an awful lot of expectation on his shoulders, but he seems to be sort of savvy enough.
Indeed, not just Tiger Woods, but all of these kids...
like Mickelson and Niklaus in his day, come up having won a lot of... They've won a lot of golf already.
We haven't seen it.
It's been sort of lower-level golf.
But they should... You know, they're kind of accustomed to the sensations of the spotlight a little more than we may be.
But there's also an expectation there, too.
Heavy.
But look at all these guys that have won the Heisman Trophy in football, and they go into the NFL, and you never hear from them again.
I mean, they disappear...
In this instance, Tiger, the expect, he's already surpassed the expectations.
I mean, he's way ahead of everybody.
Nobody thought he would win two out of whatever, five tournaments.
He just wanted to make enough to get his ticket for the next tour.
I mean, he's done that in space.
No, it was an amazing debut.
Probably it hasn't never been anything quite like it.
The question now, I guess, is how will he hold up?
A number of opinions.
A number of the older players have said that he's going to,
Achilles' back, the way you swing, sing for too long.
I guess Dr. Carrie Middlecoff, the dentist, delivered that verdict, and Trevino said that he has to learn not to hit it so hard.
But what makes him glamorous is the length, isn't it?
We seem to like length in golf.
All sorts of extremes, I guess.
When you're out there playing golf, and you mentioned earlier that you, with such a passion, for such a pastime, that as a writer you knew that you had to embrace it in some fashion or another into your, into your art.
But when you're out there, that's, you're not thinking about anything like that at all, are you?
I mean, you're not thinking about you.
This would be a pretty good detail, a novel or a story, or I can write a piece about this.
Or are you?
I'm trying to think of an instance where I self-consciously noted something, and I don't believe there was anything.
They really seem kind of different activities, and one of the reasons I play golf is it gets me away from writing and literary politics and the rather claustrophobic little world of the printed page, so you tend not to think literary thoughts.
When I...
I've gone on about four trips to both Scotland and Ireland.
Seeing those courses for the first time, and you realize what golf is really meant to be.
I may have had a literary thought or two in there, because those are beautiful courses.
I mean, they're beautiful in that they...
restore you to the essence of the game.
You don't get tired, for example, playing golf in the British Isles the way you do in the States.
Somehow you can walk 36 holes on that turf and not really feel it.
And the courses don't seem to have been constructed, but just
holes have been laid out on this pre-existing terrain and I'm sure that's not exactly true those courses have been shaped also but they seem unshaped so in a funny way it does restore you and I don't think any too many other sports have this kind of Vatican feeling this more than Vatican it's like the source this sort of magical source of the game that still exists uh
You don't get that feeling about volleyball when you go out to where volleyball was invented, for instance.
Springfield.
Springfield, right.
Hopefully hard to get excited about volleyball, you're going to say.
I don't know, even that, you know, volleyball, we used to play it in our young married days.
I love volleyball, yeah.
And it's capable of, you know, you can show off at volleyball and you can dub up at volleyball, but...
You're right.
It's not one of the great sports.
I've got a 15-year-old daughter who swims.
Thank you again for coming in.
Thank you.
Thank you for making the space available.
Thanks very much.
Nice to see you.
Take care.
You too.
Is golf a metaphor for you?
Well, it's a kind of a, yeah,
Let's say it is a metaphor.
It teaches you about life or teaches you about yourself.
It's unlike life in that you get this very rapid feedback of how well you're doing.
Most life you don't know how well you're doing and so you're able to kid yourself.
Golf doesn't let you kid yourself.
And in also a way it's a lot of what life is not now.
In a crowded world here in the crowded Northeast, it is space.
One of the reasons it makes it so expensive is it does offer you space, kind of a return to a hunter self.
You know, you get this kind of a harmony with the land that you feel as you walk those 18 holes.
You don't feel in too many other places anymore.
Golf and cemeteries are about the last places that, and when you fly, when you fly over Northeast America, as we all do, you look down and you see the golf courses, how distinguishing they are, how easily they are.
You spot them.
I always try to figure out the layout.
I'm looking down on the golf course, and you're flying over it, and try even to see if anybody's playing it.
Could you finish that sentence?
Of course it's in cemeteries.
Oh, of course it's in cemeteries.
We've got the last places that are holding open land for us, that are a green space that's being used.
Instead of arbitrarily and artificially declaring something a park, here you have a kind of utility that also has the advantage of keeping open the green space and a certain
antiquity to them both, isn't there?
Golf courses don't change very much.
This is the way the course looked when Bobby Jones strolled it in 1921, and the cemeteries don't change too much either.
So it's a place, kind of a place where the past still lives in a nice way.
Wander when you have the opportunity through old cemeteries.
That's interesting.
I was just in Concord the other day.
I have a wonderful old cemetery right there as I was going on to the library.
You did bring up a cemetery.
Yeah.
Well, the one in Concord contains the sacred remains of Emerson and Hawthorne and Thoreau, right?
All in a bunch.
It's amazing, isn't it?
It is.
And they gave your books to the library.
For a small-town library, it's probably the nicest small-town library I've ever seen.
It's a conquered one.
It's a very elegant little town.
Not cheap to live there either, but it is very pretty.
for a desirable place, as I guess it was in Emerson's Day.
Even in Emerson's Day, it was a kind of a tony, a tony place.
And also, when people think about Thoreau going off to the lake, you know, to live in the wilderness, I mean, he could walk home for dinner.
That's right.
I know, and sometimes did.
And he had a lot of visitors.
Well, he mentions some of
I guess even in the book there's a chapter on visitors, but he wasn't near as isolated as you say.
I interviewed the fellow who wrote the biography of him some years ago, and we walked, we did it out there, and it was kind of one of these in-situ things.
He said, well, here it was, oh, here was the cabin, it was over here, it's not there any longer.
I said, we really had very far from anything.
He said, no, that's one of the great legends about this whole thing, you know.
But, of course, it was wonderful.
I'm not going to take up too much of your concern.
The book does speak quite eloquently for itself.
I find it really unnecessary to ask you things.
You asked me about cemeteries, though, and whether I spend much time in them.
I guess the answer is yes.
My wife has gotten very interested in genealogy.
We've taken a number of excursions.
trying to find the graves of her ancestors.
They're mostly in Connecticut and New York State.
New York State was kind of a frontier, you know, and the records are far from clear.
Everything's pretty clear in New England because the little church ran things in a tidy way.
So you can trace your ancestors in Massachusetts all right and in Connecticut.
But you get into New York State and it's wild.
So anyway, you go there and you trudge around in these cemeteries looking for
for the right names.
Sometimes you find them, but they're very, some of them are very lovely, some are very run down, some are hideously overgrown, where trees are actually taking over and throwing the stones around.
It's sort of a ghastly sight to see a cemetery that's truly neglected and going back to forest.
Yeah, they're pleasant places and redolent of the past, but you know there is a past.
I think that's one of the problems with the modern
1996 is that there's so little to really create respect for the past or make real all the lives that have preceded ours.
Everything just happened yesterday and here it is.
Zip, zip and everything.
Are there ever any epiphanous moments out there as there are in the golf course?
No, because you're not doing anything, are you?
I guess the highest bliss is that I find this stone that you've been looking for and there the person sleeps
and has been sort of waiting for you.
A couple times we actually, even finding these old country cemeteries isn't easy because they were pretty small, and now it's on somebody else's land you trudge in.
But no, you're not interacting the way you are on golf course.
It's all about interaction.
And interaction in golf is purely basic elements, right?
You're interacting with the space of it.
the contours of the land, especially when you get to putt.
It makes you think about all the things that modern man has more or less stopped thinking about.
That's wonderful.
Any thoughts?
I've never asked a man about works in progress with regard to fiction, but I've brought along, of course, what I think is one of the great books of my lifetime.
Oh, really?
Anyone who reads professionally,
Do you at any point see creating a new character, one of these resonant characters that you like, such as Rapidor, even as Beck, that will be able to trace your passage?
It's nice.
People like it, don't they, when they have the continuous characters and the world that kind of fills in and goes on.
And I know I kind of...
I stumbled on this by reviving Rabbit when I couldn't think of anything better to do in Rabbit Redux.
I didn't really write Rabbit Run with any sort of a sequel.
But once I did that and realized how good it felt and how nice to have the characters already named and the town already characterized, everything is set up for you.
So it's a way, kind of a blisp, a blisp of the writer.
And, yeah, it's sort of scary now as I approach the time when I would be beginning yet another rabbit novel to realize that I've pretty well, I've repeatedly said in interviews I won't write another one and I set up the last one to really preclude any sequel.
Still, I feel badly, you mentioned Beck, and I've not closed him, and I would like to
He was a vehicle for writerly experiences, which I was having at the time, and I created a guy who was in some superficial, maybe not superficial, some basics, unlike me, and he came to life for me.
I tried to begin another Beck story some years ago, and somehow I got lost in it.
But I would like to write a third Beck book.
I have one story already written and then published called Beck in Check.
He's older than I. That whole kind of scene, that literary Jewish-American, basically New York literary scene that he inhabited and kind of poked fun of,
I'm not sure it still exists.
Or if it does exist, I'm too much out of touch with it.
I don't know.
I've been out in New England for too long, maybe, to write any more about Henry Beck.
But I loved those stories.
I thought, really, they were among my crispest.
And also, he was a character, unlike Rabbit, who was articulate.
And there was no thought you could have that you couldn't assign to him, because he was a subtle-thinking intellectual.
in a way that no it's true he was a good character and offered himself as a receptacle and that's what you want in a character is you want somebody who's enough unlike you that you're it's fun to be imagine yourself in his skin or her skin but also somebody that you you know to which you can feel a simpatico and feel some identification that's the magic word identification
so anyway Beck had that yeah I might I'm 64 I can't see myself inventing another rabbit though I mean inventing another character who I will carry forward I think every novel I write now is kind of my last word on that particular topic Couples is a book that could have had a sequel at some point but maybe not it pretty well wraps up those particular people and in a way that
Witches of Eastwick was a sequel to couples of the people who all have different names, but it's that particular situation, following the women under their divorced condition.
But again, a small town with a kind of seethe in it.
I love that one.
Small town, seethe, the way everybody knows everything.
I think that opening chapter, if I were to be teaching a course to really illustrate exposition, how to set a scene,
that would be the opening chapter, which is basically just brilliant how we absolutely set that scene and where we are and the clouds.
It was really wonderful.
I was reading a certain amount of Hawthorne, I think, and so that sort of New England sinister something that he captures was in my mind.
Yeah, it's nice to write about that kind of reverberating environment
Unlike, say, New York City, which is so vast that everything opens out in a disorienting way.
In a small town, everything reflects back, and the people keep meeting each other in different ways.
So there's a nice net you can get going in.
Yeah, that's the only book of mine that made Harold Bloom's canon, by the way, is Witches of Eastwick.
Philip Watt did well, but they're very good friends.
Oh boy, he did very well, didn't he?
You noticed that?
I asked him about it.
You know, they're very good friends, you know.
Nepotism.
He insists that friendship has nothing to do with it.
This thing has run down.
Do you care?
No, it's not.
It's running?
All right, good.
We'll get an hour on each side.
It's such a tiny little... It's wonderful.
It really is.
I've never seen one quite so small and refined.
And it's good.
It's reliable.
I've had them smaller, but they break down.
Plus, the fidelity is good.
I transcribe it home on a... If I were to play it here, it wouldn't sound so great, but you take the tape and put it into a...
It's a pericorder made in this country?
It's an Olympus, but it's their pearl quarter.
I've got plenty of stuff, sir.
I wonder, would you do me the honor of inscribing it?
Sure.
Well, this is interesting.
Speaking of documents, when I was writing about Buchanan A.,
He was, of course, the president before Lincoln, and he had to handle the secession of many of the Southern states.
He was pro-Southern, and so they weren't going to secede if he had won again or if somebody else had, but because Lincoln anyway, Buchanan was an old guy, kind of doddery, and where he was unmistakably pro-Southern.
He owed his political life to the South.
Nevertheless, he balked at letting them
go free, just saying, that's fine, secede, even though there was nothing in the Constitution about secession.
A fellow Pennsylvanian in his cabinet kind of brought him around to taking a firmer stand, a man called Black, and rewrote a speech Buchanan was going to give.
I'm really a little hazy on the details, but this all happened at about December
just on a few months before Lincoln took over and the Civil War began.
Black, having tossed sleeplessly all night, worried about the rightness of Buchanan's rather conciliatory address.
They were negotiating with the South Carolina commissioners, I guess.
Anyway, he wrote out a revised, tougher version that really changed the course of the administration for its few remaining months.
And they're very important in the story of Buchanan, if you care.
Anyway, I held them in the University of Pennsylvania.
They had these things, and here are all these sheets of paper covered with this wonderful, confident, flowing 19th-century hand of black.
And for a moment, at least, these were the most important pieces of paper in the United States.
History flowed through them and then flowed on.
But you do feel it, yeah.
Stephen Jay Gould, who I've interviewed for this book,
He maintains that he has to hold the original stuff.
He can't get the same thing from facsimiles.
You find that.
I don't know.
There have been studies.
They did a replica of the spirit of St.
Louis.
It looked just like it.
Nobody was interested in having that picture taken.
No, it's the magic.
It's just those little cells that rubbed off from the hands of Lindbergh's hands.
Oh, you're right.
Replicas don't do it.
And a library like Widener at Harvard used to have an astounding number of pre-1800 books on its open shelves, and you could check them in and out.
And, of course, people stole them as if it went up in value, and now I guess they're more restricted.
But it was amazing what you could find in Widener in terms of— Well, what I learned Saturday at the Concord Free Public Library?
As recently as 1955, Bolo's own annotated books were in general circulation.
Oh, really?
You could go up and take out the book with his annotations in the margins.
That's amazing, isn't it?
I mean, it's within very recent times that they've taken them out of circulation.
And there were a few things lost.
But, thankfully, Conker's a pretty proper town.
I remember I asked the woman, I said, well, you said the world is... The world of books is sufficiently vast so that it does form, as Borges has pointed out, it can form an alternative universe and people can vanish into it, you know, and real reality, three-dimensional reality becomes secondary and kind of negligible.
So there's a danger of a certain kind of book...
book madness there's a younger writer called nicholson baker i don't know if you know his stuff berkeley raging against i try to raging against the dumping the dumping of old books and they switch over to yeah no you should he's in england now and he feels very passionately and he's you know blundered into a kind of a hornet's nest because these librarians are very defensive and
of their new electronic turf, and don't want to hear about how they're dumping all these somewhat, you know, possibly precious old volumes.
The books on the one hand are trash, on the other hand they're prices.
But he's an example of a writer who almost is
scarily into the world of print, and his writing is kind of now about print.
He wrote a very long essay about the word lumber, in the sense of metal lumber.
Yeah, right.
You've read the title piece, and it goes on and on.
For me, it's had its fascination, but I recognize it as a... It takes you back to... Who's the guy who wrote The Anatomy of Melancholy?
A
Burton, wasn't that?
Those kind of Renaissance text, totally text-absorbed people.
Well, I was just out in the Bay Area a month ago, and I interviewed the new director of the Stanford Public Library.
Yeah, his name is like Dowlin or something.
Well, that's Ken Dowlin of the San Francisco Public Library.
Mike Keller is the guy down at Stanford.
I see, all right.
And of course, he's the most wired, I mean, everything.
Stanford University Press is actually publishing books now, not on paper.
Really?
I mean, but with scientific journals, it makes some sense, you know.
If something's going to be a monograph and only be issued in 600 volumes, and it's going to cost $200, and it's going to be obsolete the day it comes out anyway, if it's about, you know, tissues and cells and stuff like that, maybe it makes sense for that kind of stuff to be online that you access.
But I asked him about Nicholson Baker, and he said, that pornographer.
Really?
He called him a pornographer.
I'm talking about the reaction to this, how much sleep he's caused until who's, you know, with his sniping.
He had a piece in the New Yorker just two weeks ago about the cards.
Did you see that?
I read it.
The October 14th.
Well, about his fight with the library of San Francisco and so on, and
I think he was shaken, really.
He's not a shy guy who's not used to this sort of public dispute.
They thought they were ganging up on him, and, you know, kind of a thuggery in the San Francisco establishment.
He snuck into the library and measured the shelves.
I know.
He did do a certain amount of sneaking, and also he snuck in and saw the heaps of books that were being thrown around.
And he took down titles, which is wonderful.
documented some of the books that they were discarding.
That's right.
They all sounded like wonderful books.
Yeah, they did.